---
layout: page
title: Fully Autonomous Ball Dispensing Mobile Machine
description: Engineering Science Featured Engineering Design Course Project 2019
img: assets/img/AER201/7.jpg
importance: 1
category: University
---

<a href="https://www.utias.utoronto.ca/research-and-centres/aerospace-mechatronics/" target="_blank" style="font-size: 20px; font-weight: bold;">Instructor: Prof. M.R.Emami</a>

This was a project from a course in the Engineering Science program at the University of Toronto. 

AER201: Engineering Design (now is ESC204: Praxis III) at University of Toronto.

This project was devided into three components: electromechanical, circuit&sensor, microcontroller. Three students formed a team and each is responsible for one component. The design concept was developed by everyone in the team.

I was the circuit&sensor memember in my team, hence I am responsible for all the circuit components of the robot. In later stages, I was responsible for the integration of the robot.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/2.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/3.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
        Circuitry components of the machine.
</div>

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/6.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Team photo with Course Instructor Prof. M.R.Emami
</div>


<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/1.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/4.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/AER201/5.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Evolution of our robot (Initial look on the left, and the final look on the right).
</div>

We like the intermidate design very much, however due to the project task, the omni-directional wheels can hardly allow the machine to travel sideway moving on a straight line, we had to resign our robot. Hence, the omni-directional wires are rotated 90 degrees in the final design.